Add detailed information on KEP process (#815)
kubeflow/community: proposals/README.md

  The KEP is kept around as a historical document.
- `withdrawn`: The authors have withdrawn the KEP.
- `replaced`: The KEP has been replaced by a new KEP.
  The `superseded-by` metadata value should point to the new KEP.

Some authors may prefer to prepare a Google Doc (or similar) before creating a KEP on GitHub.
While not a required part of the process, it may be useful to quickly gather initial community feedback.

We strongly advise KEP authors to present their KEPs in relevant Kubeflow Working Group meetings or the
wider community meeting as relevant. This will help gather community feedback and bring visibility to
upcoming changes

### Git and GitHub Implementation

KEPs are checked into the component repo under the `proposals` directory. Note that there isn't yet a standard for where this directory is located.
Some components locate their KEPS at `./docs/proposals`, whereas other components have their KEPS located at `./proposals`

KEPs affecting multiple Kubeflow projects that do not fit into existing cross-component projects such as `kubeflow/manifests` should be created under `kubeflow/community`

> - New KEPs can be checked in with a file name in the form of `draft-YYYYMMDD-my-title.md`.

Reviewer: I guess we should change it to:
```
New KEPs can be checked in with a file name in the form of `XXX-my-title.md`, where XXX - is a KEP number.
```

# KEP Format to Propose and Document Enhancements to Kubeflow

<!-- toc -->
- [KEP Format to Propose and Document Enhancements to Kubeflow](#kep-format-to-propose-and-document-enhancements-to-kubeflow)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Motivation](#motivation)
    - [Goals](#goals)
    - [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
  - [Proposal](#proposal)
  - [Reference-Level Explanation](#reference-level-explanation)
    - [What Type of Work Should Be Tracked by a KEP](#what-type-of-work-should-be-tracked-by-a-kep)
    - [KEP Workflow](#kep-workflow)
    - [Git and GitHub Implementation](#git-and-github-implementation)
    - [KEP Editor Role](#kep-editor-role)
    - [Prior Art](#prior-art)
<!-- /toc -->

## Summary

> A standardized development process for Kubeflow is proposed, in order to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A standardized development process for Kubeflow is recommended, when the scope is sufficiently large, in order to:
```

- provide a common structure for proposing changes to Kubeflow
- ensure that the motivation for a change is clear
- allow for the enumeration of stability milestones and stability graduation
  criteria
- persist project information in a Version Control System (VCS) for future
  contributors
- support the creation of _high-value, user-facing_ information such as:
  - an overall project development roadmap
  - motivation for impactful user-facing changes
- reserve GitHub issues for tracking work in flight, instead of creating "umbrella"
  issues
- ensure community participants can successfully drive changes to
  completion across one or more releases while stakeholders are adequately
  represented throughout the process

> This process is supported by a unit of work of the Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal format, or KEP for short.

Author: It feels odd to call them `Kubeflow Enhancement Proposals`, since we're basing this on upstream KEPs. Not a thing I care _that_ much about, though. Thoughts @franciscojavierarceo @juliusvonkohout ?

> This process is supported by a unit of work of the Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal format, or KEP for short.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine and a nice coincidence. We can just say we based it on Kubernetes' KEP.

> This process is supported by a unit of work of the Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal format, or KEP for short.

Reviewer: Yes, even tho it is the same name, we should call it Kubeflow Enhancement Proposal to not confuse users.
Even that our process almost identical to k8s, we can make some changes that work for our community.

- Encourage Thoughtful, Deliberate Decisions
- Preserve Institutional Knowledge

### Non-Goals

- Not a substitute for technical or user documentation
- Not a substitute or replacement for meaningful commit messages

## Proposal

A KEP is broken into sections which can be merged into source control
incrementally in order to support an iterative development process. The KEP process
is intended to create high-quality, uniform design and implementation documents
for maintainers to deliberate. Contributors proposing new KEPs should create a copy of the [template directory](./NNNN-template)
and proceed as per the instructions in the template.

## Reference-Level Explanation

### What Type of Work Should Be Tracked by a KEP

Roughly any user or operator facing enhancement should follow the KEP process.
If an enhancement would be described in either written or verbal communication
to anyone besides the KEP author or developer, then consider creating a KEP.

Similarly, any technical effort (refactoring, major architectural change) that
will impact a large section of the development community should also be
communicated widely. The KEP process is suited for this even if it will have

> zero impact on the typical user or operator.

Reviewer 3: In practice i think this will not always happen if there is not enough bandwidth. So i think this should be for massive changes that are not straightforward.

"Similarly, technical effort (refactoring, major architectural change) that
will **significantly** impact a large section of the development community should also be
communicated widely. The KEP process is suited for this even if it will have
zero impact on the typical user or operator."

Author: That's actually fair. I don't want to make it significantly harder for community members to contribute to Kubeflow. I'll make the suggested edit.

### KEP Workflow

A KEP has the following states:

- `provisional`: The KEP has been proposed and is actively being defined.
  This is the starting state while the KEP is being fleshed out and actively defined and discussed.
  The owning SIG has accepted that this work must be done.
- `implementable`: The approvers have approved this KEP for implementation.
- `implemented`: The KEP has been implemented and is no longer actively changed.
- `deferred`: The KEP is proposed but not actively being worked on.
- `rejected`: The approvers and authors have decided that this KEP is not moving forward.
  The KEP is kept around as a historical document.
- `withdrawn`: The authors have withdrawn the KEP.
- `replaced`: The KEP has been replaced by a new KEP.
  The `superseded-by` metadata value should point to the new KEP.

> ### Git and GitHub Implementation

Reviewer 2: Yeah  +1

> KEPs are checked into the component repo under the `proposals` directory. Note that there isn't yet a standard for where this directory is located.

Reviewer 3: That does not work that well with kubeflow/manifests rootless efforts, so i would not make it a hard requirement. It can make sense in some areas, but for example helm charts, rootless, istio-cni/ambient are better located in kubeflow/manifests.

> KEPs are checked into the component repo under the `proposals` directory. Note that there isn't yet a standard for where this directory is located.

Reviewer 3: See also https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/master/proposals

> KEPs are checked into the component repo under the `proposals` directory. Note that there isn't yet a standard for where this directory is located.

Reviewer: @juliusvonkohout @kubeflow/wg-manifests-leads can we identify list of improvements that should be discussed under kubeflow/manifests ?
I think, if some of these features belong to manifests, we should update the @kubeflow/wg-manifests-leads charter to include it in their scope: https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/wg-manifests/charter.md#code-binaries-and-services

> KEPs are checked into the component repo under the `proposals` directory. Note that there isn't yet a standard for where this directory is located.

Reviewer: @juliusvonkohout Please can you work towards updating the charter of WG Manifests to include it?
Maybe we can cross-link it from this process, so users better understand to whom they should reach out if they want to contribute new feature.

> KEPs are checked into the component repo under the `proposals` directory. Note that there isn't yet a standard for where this directory is located.

Author: I added the following blurb:

KEPs affecting multiple Kubeflow projects that do not fit into existing cross-component projects such as `kubeflow/manifests` should be created under `kubeflow/community`
